Come back in this lesson we're going to be showing you how to do window open and what window open does
is basically it allows you to open up another window just by using javascript.
So first of all let's set up a trigger in order to.
So we can have an input button trigger our pop up window.
So this is just going to be a regular standard.
H tim l button and we'll give it a value of pop and then we're going to just set the On Click event
handler and we'll just call it pop up.
So now we need to create a function called pop up that will initiate opening up the window so function
pop up.
So basically when the button gets clicked we want to open up the window.
So there's a few parameters here that we can make use of within this window.
So first of all we need you or else let's say a variable you are l and this is the you are all that
we wanted to open up and I'm just going to open up indexed on H Himmel you could open up different web
pages if you are opening up a web page.
Make sure you do that HTP dope w w w.
So if you're doing Facebook then you could do something like that.
But for now I'm just going to keep it at indexed.
H t m-L.
And next we're going to actually do the window open so window open as part of the windows object.
And we know that the window object has a whole bunch of methods attached to it and we did see a lot
of them earlier.
So I just want to go over open a little bit more detail because you actually have some control over
the different options that you have for opening up the window.
So first of all you need to provide that you are all that you're opening up.
So we've got that here represented in this variable.
So we know we can open that up.
So next we need to provide a name for the window.
And this is really important because if you want you also have an option to open up on the current window.
So for now what are you going to do is I'm going to create a name and I'm just going to do blank so
that we know that we're opening up a blank window so just like if you've got a hyperlink you can add
it and set it up as a brain window.
So there's one more last parameter and this one has a whole bunch of options so we can control height.
We can control with we can control where the window gets positioned.
So there's a lot of options we can add scrollbars toolbars location bars and a whole lot more.
So let's let's just do some of the defaults and all we have to do is set the parameter the name and
then the value.
So let's set this up and let's bring it top and I'm going to set the top rate to zero.
And I get a comma separated.
Am I going to do with.
So let's do a with and this is a pixel with for the window.
So let's do a width of 200.
So go out into the browser and we've got our pop button.
When I click the button we open up our window and we see that it opened up right at the top.
So if I was to adjust this go back and refresh it and I know I've got a few windows opening up.
Now we can see that we've got the ability to open up multiple windows.
So next let's set some even some additional parameters so we set our width and also let's that height.
So that's another really common one that you might be setting.
And we're going to do a really tiny window
so let's go back and refresh it and we can see now we've positioned that at one hundred picks down and
the width is 200.
The height is 200.
So let's just start again and we're going to bring it back to zero because I think before I didn't refresh
the page.
So we have full control over what it looks like and where it gets positioned.
So let's go back and refresh the page try it again and then we've got our pop up window.
So we're popping it up top.
Zero height and with 200.
So another way to do it is that we can set and we can do our options and have that in a separate variable
because I know this is getting quite long.
So we can take those same parameters here and we've got a number of other ones that we can enter in.
So I'm just going to simply do that.
So one other thing that I also wanted to show you as well within the window if we want the window to
go on itself we can just simply to self.
And I know this isn't going to really do anything but let's
so let's do id 1000 so that we can actually distinguish between the two different windows so we can
see that.
Now we've gone over to our ID equals 1000 window.
So now every time I click it it'll go to the ID 1000.
So that's how you can send that window on top of itself as well.
So now what I want you to do is pause the video and try it for yourself.
Create an input.
So create a way to trigger your function.
And then once the function triggers then I add in some parameters set your Eurail to wherever your favorite
website is then open up set some options.
So there's a bunch of other ones as well.
So set a default window height and width of 400 and then also move the window left 100 picks and one
her picks off of the top.
And also add in the window to open up into a new pop up window so not on the same one.
So not what I have here.
So pause the video.
Try it out and I'll show you the solution coming up so I hope you get an opportunity to try that out
and there isn't a whole lot of updates that we need to do.
So we're going to stick with that seem you are all we're going to update this to blank.
And we did say that we want change the height to height and width to 400.
We want to go off the top 100 and the one that we were missing is left.
So we want it to move it over left 100 top 100 and
so once you've added it in.
Go ahead and save it refresh the page and then pop up that window in the location that you've specified.
So let's do one more thing.
So go ahead try that.
And I wanted to add in one more thing.
So we've got pop up and let's do pop up close and we're going to set a variable here.
So this one is actually I want it to be a global variable because we want to access it from another
function.
So let's just add that and create that one.
And now let's do a function for a pop.
Close
go down a little bit and we're going to grab
and we're going to do the close method.
So let's try the saved.
So pop up the window and then you can close it down.
And actually this one should say close.
So you do have a lot of control especially when you're registering those values and you're giving the
window that's opened up.
So it's being completely contained within that object.
So that means that we've got actual control over it and we can close it down if you want.
So go ahead try that out and add the close button into your application using the editor.
And there's one other thing that I did want to note.
So we are opening up that same web page and we've got a close here as well.
So if you close this one this is no longer referring to the current instance that was opened.
So I need to do another one where I opened that one and then I can close it from the window that opened
it.
So that's where the controls are laying they're actually laying in the window that initiated that instance
of that window popping up.
So going back and just remembering that that clause is not referring to that new one that was opened
up and you do need to open another one in order to do the close.
And then this one would have this one would have control over that instance that opened up.